README.md, before:

# ScraperWiki Ruby library [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/scraperwiki/scraperwiki-ruby.png)](https://travis-ci.org/scraperwiki/scraperwiki-ruby)

This is a Ruby library for scraping web pages and saving data.

It is the easiest way to save data on the ScraperWiki platform, and it
can also be used locally or on your own servers.

## Installing

```
gem install scraperwiki
```

## Scraping

### ScraperWiki.scrape(url[, params])

Returns the downloaded string from the given *url*. *params* are sent as a POST if set.

### Saving data

Helper functions for saving and querying an SQL database. Updates the schema
automatically according to the data you save.

Currently only supports SQLite. It will make a local SQLite database.
You should expect it to support other SQL databases at a later date.

### ScraperWiki.save\_sqlite(unique\_keys, data[, table\_name = "swdata"],verbose)

Saves a data record into the datastore into the table given
by *table_name*.

*data* is a hash object with field names as keys (can be strings or symbols).

*unique_keys* is a subset of data.keys() which determines when a record is
overwritten.

For large numbers of records *data* can be a list of dicts.

*verbose*, kept for smooth migration from classic, doesn't do anything yet.

### ScraperWiki.sqliteexecute(query,[params],verbose)

Executes provided query with the parameters against the database and returns the results in key value pairs

*query* is a sql statement

*params*, if prepared statement will contains an array of values

### ScraperWiki.save\_var(name,value,verbose)

Allows the user to save a single variable (at a time) to carry state across runs of the scraper.

*name*, the variable name

*value*, the value of the variable

*verbose*, verbosity level

### ScraperWiki.get\_var(name,default,verbose)

Allows the user to retrieve a previously saved variable

*name*, The variable name to fetch

*value*, The value to use if the variable name is not found

*verbose*, verbosity level

### ScraperWiki.select(partial\_query,[params],verbose)

Allows for a simplified select statement

*partial_query*, A valid select statement, without the select keyword

*params* Any data provided for ? replacements in the query

*verbose*, verbosity level

## Usage

Run your Ruby scraper and any data saved will be put in an SQLite database in the current directory called `scraperwiki.sqlite`.

If you're using scrapers from ScraperWiki Classic, remember to add `require 'scraperwiki'` to your file if it's not already there.

## Development

You need the `sqlite3` program installed to run tests. To install run `sudo apt-get install sqlite3` on Ubuntu.

Commit message:

Complete rewrite. May not work!

README.md, after:

# ScraperWiki Ruby library [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/openc/scraperwiki-ruby.png)](https://travis-ci.org/openc/scraperwiki-ruby)

This is a Ruby library for scraping web pages and saving data. It is a fork/rewrite of the original scraperwiki-ruby gem at, extracting the SQLite utility methods into the sqlite_magic gem.

It is a work in progress (for example, it doesn't yet create indices automatically), but should allow ScraperWiki classic scripts to be run locally. 

## Installing

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'scraperwiki-ruby', :git => 'git@github.com:openc/sqlite_magic.git'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

## Scraping

### ScraperWiki.scrape(url[, params])

Returns the downloaded string from the given *url*. *params* are sent as a POST if set.

### Saving data

Helper functions for saving and querying an SQL database. Updates the schema
automatically according to the data you save.

Currently only supports SQLite. It will make a local SQLite database.

### ScraperWiki.save\_sqlite(unique\_keys, data[, table\_name = "swdata"],verbose)

Saves a data record into the datastore into the table given
by *table_name*.

*data* is a hash with field names as keys (can be strings or symbols).

*unique_keys* is a subset of data.keys() which determines when a record is
overwritten.

For large numbers of records *data* can be an array of hashes.

*verbose*, kept for smooth migration from classic, doesn't do anything yet.

### ScraperWiki.sqliteexecute(query,[params],verbose)

Executes provided query with the parameters against the database and returns the results in key value pairs

*query* is a sql statement

*params*, if prepared statement will contains an array of values

### ScraperWiki.save\_var(name,value,verbose)

Allows the user to save a single variable (at a time) to carry state across runs of the scraper.

*name*, the variable name

*value*, the value of the variable

*verbose*, verbosity level

### ScraperWiki.get\_var(name,default,verbose)

Allows the user to retrieve a previously saved variable

*name*, The variable name to fetch

*value*, The value to use if the variable name is not found

*verbose*, verbosity level

### ScraperWiki.select(partial\_query,[params],verbose)

Allows for a simplified select statement

*partial_query*, A valid select statement, without the select keyword

*params* Any data provided for ? replacements in the query

*verbose*, verbosity level

## Usage

Run your Ruby scraper and any data saved will be put in an SQLite database in the current directory called `scraperwiki.sqlite`.

If you're using scrapers from ScraperWiki Classic, remember to add `require 'scraperwiki'` to your file if it's not already there.

## Development

You need the `sqlite3` program installed to run tests. To install run `sudo apt-get install sqlite3` on Ubuntu.
